welcome to the man of recaps this is the
man in the high castle season for the
final season at the end of season three
Julianne Crain was a prisoner but oh
she's meditating and boom travels to an
alternate reality and good news she made
it to one where the Nazis did not
conquer America and guess what Good
Samaritan happens to find her
Nazi John Smith there's a little bit of
a time jump Juliana settled into a new
life here she's even got a boyfriend
who's that oh actually it's not Joe
Blake it's just a random dude I was a
hundred percent sure that after Julianna
killed Nazi Joe Blake last season she
was gonna meet him in alternate earth
where it's a good Joe Blake and they
were gonna get together but I guess not
speaking of good characters not
returning trade minister to go me has
been assassinated
yeah the Crown Princess of Japan was
visiting town when there was an attempt
on her life and Tacoma he's the one that
got it all the evidence points to a
member of the black Communist rebellion
but Chief Inspector Takeshi Kido knows
this was too easy
his commanding officer tells him to drop
it so it was obviously an inside job and
Kido basically tricks this guy into
admitting it now what is the black
Communist rebellion well it's exactly
what it sounds like one of their leaders
is this woman Mallory and they're
planning an attack when a bunch of
Japanese bigwigs will be at an art
auction hosted by none other than Robert
childen his antique business is doing
really well these days he's even got
himself a cute Japanese assistant slash
girlfriend so the BCR reaches out to the
regular resistance led these days by our
Irish friend Wyatt price they pose as
caterers and have to test all the food
for poison but they don't check inside
the pig where they've hidden a bunch of
guns so the auctions going well till
they come out blasting and it's a huge
success they take out a bunch of
Japanese generals now Nazi John Smith is
burning all the high castle films in
fact they've given the man in the high
castle his own Twilight Zone type show
this discredits any of the real films
makes it look like just a publicity
stunt for a new show of course the only
reason he's doing it is because they've
got him and his wife prisoner the Nazis
have basically perfected their stranger
things type dimensional portal they've
been sending spy teams through
collecting intelligence and have now
basically mapped out the multiverse with
intentions to conquer at all John Smith
has a personal interest in the closest
world where his son Thomas is still
alive and well but wait a second who's
that in the background it's julianna
crane yeah she in the Smith's are
friends in that world so Nazi John
an assassin there to kill her but good
John Smith saves her and oh the assassin
kills him guy has to report that awkward
news to his boss but this is good for
John Smith remember you can only travel
if your doppelganger in that world is
dead so John Smith's going to America
John Smith steps right into his
doppelgangers happy life there where his
wife still loves him and his son Thomas
is still alive he hugs him for a super
awkwardly long time it's like dad I see
you every day things are awkward though
when his best friend comes over it gives
John panic flashbacks to the end of his
World War two when the Nazis occupied
America the Nazis were offering amnesty
to any American soldiers that joined
them John Smith had his wife and newborn
son to think about so he's like yeah I
gotta do it unfortunately though the
offer did not apply to Jews so later
John did nothing as his best friend was
carted away to be killed and it was a
scarring moment in this world though
Vietnam starting up and Thomas wants to
join the Marines good John Smith might
have said the right things to talk him
out of it but not see John Smith tries
to talk him out of it but for all the
wrong reasons
so Thomas gets mad and enlists right
then in there so Thomas goes off to die
for his country
just like his thomas in nazi world now
after the art auction attack they took
Robert childen hostage he talks his way
out of being killed once again and
offers to use his contacts to set up a
meeting for peace talks
the Japanese command has a complicated
situation this season basically the
Crown Princess and some of her friends
are thinking about pulling out of
America because they can't really hold
it but some of the generals are not
gonna let that happen the peace talks go
well until the black leaders
assassinated yeah at f8 I tell them and
the good generals under arrest for
meeting with terrorists they charge him
with treason which inspector Kido is
okay with but when they add on
conspiring to assassinate trade minister
to go me Kito won't let that stand he
makes a last-minute decision to call off
the execution and arrest the real
general who did it Julianna crane and
Good Earth realizes she'll never be safe
while the Nazis still control the other
one so she meditates herself back over
there and quickly rejoins the resistance
now remember John Smith's wife Helen
left him at the end of last season she
and the girls have been living in the
neutral zone with her brother but John
Smith's like hey it's time to come home
her time away though has made Helen
realize the Nazis are super evil one day
Himmler comes for dinner he survived his
assassination attempt he's brought with
him a hot new over group and Fuhrer who
is made very clear will be John's
replacement if he and his family don't
get their act
so Helen's gotta keep up appearances as
the perfect nazi wife their youngest
daughter is totally indoctrinated by the
party but her teenage daughter spending
a year in the neutral zone has made her
realize all this Nazi stuff is crazy she
talks to her friend about how her mom's
just faking it and the resistance was
listening Juliana realizes getting to
helen is the best way to get to Johnson
if she approaches Ellen secretly trying
to get her to help the resistance take
down John Helen's got a new handler now
though who's not letting her out of her
sight why it's disguised as a janitor
they have a big knife fight and
Juliana's got to choke her out helen
sees this and is like no thank you no
resistance for me
meanwhile the black Communist rebellions
in disarray with their leader dead but
Mallory steps up and wants to plan a new
attack on the oil pipeline so boom it's
a series of coordinated attacks all up
and down the California coast and after
that they have to admit they just can't
hold California anymore the Japanese are
pulling out childen asked his Japanese
girlfriend to marry him and they're
trying to go to Japan but they won't let
him through he's too white he goes to
see the head of the Yakuza who could
definitely get him over there but just
then Chief Inspector Kido bust into we
met Kido son this season who was having
PTSD war flashbacks and so racked up a
huge opium debt with the Yakuza yugudah
bosses like hey we'll forgive your son's
debt if you join up with us and
Inspector key votes like yeah the
world's falling apart why not
Robert children still there he's like um
so can I go and it's like yeah I get out
of here but with the Japanese leaving
clearly the Nazis are gonna roll right
in there in Berlin they have a big war
meeting where John Smith is the outcast
because he's not German in fact they
bring him J Edgar Hoover with a case
against John he's had John and his
family under surveillance for a while
and he's got a mountain of evidence of
Helen and John saying treasonous things
similars like John don't you have
anything to say in your defense John
Smith's like not really only that I'm
gonna strangle you right here hold moob
John how you gonna get away with this
though oh he doesn't have to looks like
this was part of a planned coup he was
working with sexy new obergruppenfuehrer
these two have agreed to split the Reich
in half he's gonna take Europe and John
Smith's gonna be Fuhrer of America
Helen's like wow this is amazing you're
in charge now we can stop being evil
right but John's just too far gone down
the Nazi path now she finds out he's
planning concentration camps in the
western states so she calls up Juliana
like hey I'll help you take him out so
next time he's taking a train over to
portal the resistance is gonna blow it
up John and Helen have their final
confrontation where she's like hey
you're not just doing what you have to
to survive anymore you've become the bad
guy it has to stop and boom train
explosion Oh big ol crash John Smith's a
badass so he survives Helen though is
not so lucky
Juliana tracks down John Smith and he's
like you know I realized I am the bad
guy and oh he kills himself over in
California they're ready to defend
themselves against the Nazi invasion but
now with John Smith dead the next guy in
command is like whoa call off the attack
he's like yeah um is everyone cool if we
just stop being Nazis yeah let's do that
the resistance meanwhile has taken over
the dimensional portal just then it
activates itself and a bunch of people
coming through who are these people
oh they're just a bunch of random it's
left super unclear I think the
implication is that like the portals
just all the way open now and people can
just go travel to whatever world is the
best for that no one knows but in any
case that's how man in the high castle
comes to an end if you like this recap
hit that subscribe button I'm bringing
you the best recaps of TV and movies so
don't miss out
[Music]